hello everybody welcome to my channel
today i am going to explain an
australian horror film called relic
this is a film with a difference it has
lots of hidden meanings
it's a metaphoric film the film is
directed by natalie erica james
it's her debut film she did an excellent
job
please watch till the end the film
starts in a big house in rural australia
on christmas day
an old lady edna was standing naked in a
trance
now after one year edna's daughter kay
and granddaughter arrive there to meet
edna
they don't find their mom or grandma
neighbors say they have not seen edna
leaving the house for a while
meaning she was not in the house or
outside edna's house looked like a
warehouse
her house was consumed with black molds
stuffs were scattered
fruits rotted doors had new locks
the paper notes were everywhere some
contained simple reminders like setting
an alarm
cooking food etc some had sinister notes
like stay away from them
don't follow it it seems edna had
dementia which caused memory loss and
affected her day-to-day functioning
now kay informs mike the policeman and
they start searching in the jungle
sam and kay starts cleaning the house
sam hears a fishy sound in the storeroom
when she checked it there was nothing
now edna's neighbor's kid and sam's
childhood friend
jamie refuses to enter the house he
checks on sam from a distance and smokes
with sam
jamie had down syndrome later sam and
kay hear a tapping noise behind the main
hall wall
that wall had a lot of black molds later
in a dream
casey is an old man in an empty cabin
that old guy's body turned black
he was horrific in look he dies there
suddenly
next day edna arrives and starts to make
tea
upon asking she says she can't remember
where she was
she had a totally different behavior the
doctor gives her a clean [ __ ] after the
physical test
but asks how she got that black mold on
her chest
edna rubs it off by saying i don't know
how i got it
the doctor advises k not to leave edna
alone
kay was very busy with her own life she
was not in the position of handling edna
kay thinks an old age home will be the
best option for her
at night sam finds a sketchbook there
was a sketch of that cabin which kay saw
in her dream
kay says it was her great grandfather's
house he had dementia too
his family abandoned him and he died
alone
some parts of that house were used to
build edna's house
meaning that front glass window was from
that cabin at night edna was again
muttering something while standing alone
kay takes her to bed edna says he is
below my bed
check it kay tries to convince her that
there is no one
upon edna's insistence kay examines it
she did see something moving there then
edna suddenly drops a book on the floor
the noise causes kay to get hit hard on
the head
kay angrily shouts at her mom for doing
it deliberately
edna's dementia was getting worse next
day k
checks an old age home in melbourne she
was happy with its felicities
edna was a misfit for her busy life and
she books a slot while crying with guilt
meanwhile edna behaved strangely in the
house
one moment she was happy dancing with
sam next she violently attacked sam for
her ring
which she only gave it to her that night
standing in front of the storeroom
she says he might have come this way
after his arrival
strange things were happening it feels
strange
all memories are getting lost now
another dream haunts k
she saw edna in that cabin the whole
cabin in front glass got covered in
black mold which was on edna's chest
next sam asks her neighbor why they
don't send jamie to edna's house anymore
alex says a few months ago jamie was
playing hide and seek with edna
he was hiding in the storeroom edna
locked in there
he was there for hours even after
hearing janie's voice
she didn't open the door from that
incident janie's parents stopped him
from playing with edna
now edna runs from the house with a
photo album
k follows her edna tries to bury it in
the ground
in a bizarre instance she tried to eat
some photos
k stops her in shock edna says this is
the only way to save memories else it
will destroy all
here kay understands that her mom's
mental health is fragile
kate finally understands her mistake and
says she will look after her personally
now sam was again checking that
storeroom she finds a new door and
enters it
she finds a way which was not ending
scared sam back tracks her way
the door through which she entered was
not there either actually there was a
labyrinth in the storeroom
in the beginning we heard some voice
from the main hall wall
when edna was missing i guess she might
be trapped here and eventually get out
somehow
she did indeed touch kaye's head before
making tea
now sam was trapped there she saw edna's
notes there implying she used to come
here
meanwhile edna is now taking a bath the
black mold on her chest was spreading
everywhere
to remove it she stabs herself with a
knife
after seeing water overflow kay asks her
are you okay
when she gets no answer she forcefully
enters the bathroom
asks her what she's doing with her chest
at that moment the power goes off
in darkness edna runs towards the
storeroom
kaye follows her with a candle edna
enters the same labyrinth in which sam
was trapped
strangely edna's white skin starts to
peel off here
she starts to resemble that old black
guy which k saw in her dream
hiredna attacks k violently as if some
demon has possessed her
now k runs from her and meets with sam
they both end up at a dead end which
happens to be the main hall wall of the
house
they start to hit hard at that wooden
wall with a steel rod to make a way out
meanwhile edna also arrives there to
attack them
when all three arrive at the main hall
sam hits edna pretty hard with a steel
rod edna faints
it seems edna was possessed by demonic
power which was turning her skin to
black
well this was just a metaphor she was
dying slowly
now sam and kay are running away from
this house
while passing k saw a glass window which
reminds her of her great-granddad who
was left to die
she was also doing the same thing she
accepts her mistakes and enters the
house
she lifts edna's black body and place it
on the bed
she kissed that horrific looking
creature which signifies she has
accepted her mom's old age
she sleeps besides the thing later sam
also sleeps with it
later sam notices a black mold on kaye's
back signaling she will get dementia
sam will see her mother like this too
the film ends here
so this is a non-straightforward film
about dementia shown from a horror angle
dementia is not a single disease it's a
cluster of diseases
most people just call it memory loss
every part of the film explains symptoms
of dementia
if you have a clean mind then you will
keep cleanliness around
it will manifest around you the house
looking as if a warehouse was an example
of bad mind
edna knew she was forgetting hence she
used paper notes
the labyrinth symbolizes consciousness
of mind
how it gets trapped every day in our own
memories
the black mold on the chest symbolizes
slow progression of dementia
the story of the great granddad shows
its genetic nature
how it can be passed on to the next
generations
at the end edna is shown as a black
creature symbolizing people's treatment
towards dementia patients as demons
moral of the story take good care of
your elders
the film has a proper blend of horror
and social message
please take good care of your elders if
you like this video please like it
please subscribe to the channel do share
your opinion in the comments section
thanks for watching take care